index.md, before:

## Welcome to our website

Here, we will post some useful example code and notes.  It is not required for you to work with this code, but it may be helpful for getting started.  The instructors are [Charlie Peskin](https://www.math.nyu.edu/faculty/peskin/) and [Charles Puelz](https://cpuelz.github.io/).  This class is associated with the [Modeling and Simulation RTG grant](https://math.nyu.edu/dynamic/research/pages/research-and-training-group-mathematical-modeling-and-simulation/) here at Courant.

### Code

-building some structures: [simple_structure_2d.m](simple_structure_2d.m), [simple_structure_3d.m](simple_structure_3d.m)

-building a bicycle: [bicycle.m](bicycle.m)

-2d forward Euler example with a chain of springs: [spring_string.m](spring_string.m)

-2d bouncing ball: [bouncing_ball.m](bouncing_ball.m).  Try varying the spring and dashpot parameters to see how this impacts the dynamics.  Be careful, the set of parameters in this file are close to being unstable with forward Euler :-).

-rigid bodies: [rigid_body.m](rigid_body.m)

-falling cone: [falling_cone.m](falling_cone.m)

### Notes

Here is a link to some [notes](notes_MATH395.pdf) that will be regularly updated.  These are still a work in progress.

Here are some of Charlie's hand written notes:

-[Mass action](mass_action.pdf)

-[Principle of detailed balance](principle_of_detailed_balance.pdf)

-[Equations of motion for a gyrocompass](gyrocompass.pdf)

-[Enzyme kinetics](enzyme_kinetics.pdf)

-[Paper on cellular circadian rhythm](WangPeskinPhysRevE.97.062416.pdf)

-[A genetic switch](genetic_switch.pdf)

-[Hemeoglobin](hemeoglobin.pdf) and an [old paper](monod_wyman_changeaux_allosteric.pdf) about it.

## Projects

Proposals for the first project will be due Friday, October 12, by email at 11:59pm.  Writeups for the first project will be due Friday, November 9, by email at 11:59pm.  We will strive to have your presentations before you turn in your writeups, so you can incorporate any comments you may receive during your presentation.

Proposals for the second project will be due Friday, November 2, by email at 11:59pm.  Presentations and writeups for the second project should be done by the end of the exam period.

Commit message:

adding some notes and student projects

index.md, after:

## Welcome to our website

Here, we will post some useful example code and notes.  It is not required for you to work with this code, but it may be helpful for getting started.  The instructors are [Charlie Peskin](https://www.math.nyu.edu/faculty/peskin/) and [Charles Puelz](https://cpuelz.github.io/).  This class is associated with the [Modeling and Simulation RTG grant](https://math.nyu.edu/dynamic/research/pages/research-and-training-group-mathematical-modeling-and-simulation/) here at Courant.

### Code

-building some structures: [simple_structure_2d.m](simple_structure_2d.m), [simple_structure_3d.m](simple_structure_3d.m)

-building a bicycle: [bicycle.m](bicycle.m)

-2d forward Euler example with a chain of springs: [spring_string.m](spring_string.m)

-2d bouncing ball: [bouncing_ball.m](bouncing_ball.m).  Try varying the spring and dashpot parameters to see how this impacts the dynamics.  Be careful, the set of parameters in this file are close to being unstable with forward Euler :-).

-rigid bodies: [rigid_body.m](rigid_body.m)

-falling cone: [falling_cone.m](falling_cone.m)

### Notes

Here is a link to some [notes](notes_MATH395.pdf) that will be regularly updated.  These are still a work in progress.

Here are some of Charlie's hand written notes:

-[Mass action](mass_action.pdf)

-[Principle of detailed balance](principle_of_detailed_balance.pdf)

-[Equations of motion for a gyrocompass](gyrocompass.pdf)

-[Enzyme kinetics](enzyme_kinetics.pdf)

-[Paper on cellular circadian rhythm](WangPeskinPhysRevE.97.062416.pdf)

-[A genetic switch](genetic_switch.pdf)

-[Hemoglobin](hemeoglobin.pdf) and an [old paper](monod_wyman_changeaux_allosteric.pdf) about it.

-[Traffic flow](traffic_simulation_notes.pdf)

## Student projects

Here is a [beautiful project](gyroscope_Final_Paper.pdf) from Zeshun Zong and Yifeng Chen and gyroscopes and their applications.  You can find their code in the repo: https://github.com/zeshunzong/A_series_of_experiments_based_on_gyroscope.

## Projects

Proposals for the first project will be due Friday, October 12, by email at 11:59pm.  Writeups for the first project will be due Friday, November 9, by email at 11:59pm.  We will strive to have your presentations before you turn in your writeups, so you can incorporate any comments you may receive during your presentation.

Proposals for the second project will be due Friday, November 2, by email at 11:59pm.  Presentations and writeups for the second project should be done by the end of the exam period.
